
1. What are bloom filters ?
A Bloom filter is a space-efficient probabilistic data structure that is used to test whether an element is a member of a set.
For example, checking availability of username is set membership problem, where the set is the list of all registered username.

Suppose we have 20 million user base , and in registering user , we are creating unique username . 
For every new user we have to check in 20 million user base whether this username exist or not . 

Ways to optimize it . 
1. Linear search in database : This is very very heavy operation takes TC : O(n) .
2. Binary Search : Optimized but still as userbase grows to 100 millions , it will also becomes heavy operation 
3. Hashing : We can store all taken username in hash table , and searching in it will take O(1) TC but 
      In hashing , we are using extra space of O(n) . We have to store 20 million username . There is trade off
      between time and space after using Hashing . 

4. Bloom Filters : It is space-efficient probalistic data strucuture that can be used to solve our problem . But still it 
has some disadvantage which we will discuss later in this article . 

It has one hash function and bucket list . Whenver we get any username to store , we first create it hash value
and then store in bucket table . 
For Example : register username ashishrai
hash(ashishrai) - 546 , hash(rashmik) - 952 . 
Now check for username : (john) - 452 : If it completely exists then our bloom filter will give : username already 
exists for sure . But if it does not exists , suppose some of its bits available and some not , then it will give
false positive values : Means , given username may available to use . 


                    1     1  1  1        1
Bucket List : 0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9

For more user , we need to increase bloom filter size and hashing function values . 


Deleting elements from filter is not possible because, if we delete a single element by clearing bits at indices
generated by k hash functions, it might cause deletion of few other elements. Example - if we delete “geeks” 
(in given example below) by clearing bit at 1, 4 and 7, we might end up deleting “nerd” also Because bit at index 
4 becomes 0 and bloom filter claims that “nerd” is not present.


Applications of Bloom filters 

- Medium uses bloom filters for recommending post to users by filtering post which have been seen by user.
- Quora implemented a shared bloom filter in the feed backend to filter out stories that people have seen before.
- The Google Chrome web browser used to use a Bloom filter to identify malicious URLs
- Google BigTable, Apache HBase and Apache Cassandra, and Postgresql use Bloom filters to reduce the disk lookups for
non-existent rows or columns












